In mathematics, rings are algebraic structures that generalize fields: multiplication
need not be commutative and multiplicative inverses need not exist. In other words, a ring
is a set equipped with two binary operations satisfying properties analogous to those of
addition and multiplication of integers. Ring elements may be numbers such as integers or
complex numbers, but they may also be non-numerical objects such as polynomials, square
matrices, functions, and power series.

Formally, a ring is an abelian group whose operation is called addition, with a second binary
operation called multiplication that is associative, is distributive over the addition
operation, and has an identity element. (Some authors use the term "ring" to refer to the
more general structure that omits this last requirement; see § Notes on the definition.)

Whether a ring is commutative (that is, whether the order in which two elements are multiplied
might change the result) has profound implications on its behavior. Commutative algebra, the
theory of commutative rings, is a major branch of ring theory. Its development has been greatly
influenced by problems and ideas of algebraic number theory and algebraic geometry. The simplest
commutative rings are those that admit division by non-zero elements; such rings are called fields.

Examples of commutative rings include the set of integers with their standard addition and
multiplication, the set of polynomials with their addition and multiplication, the coordinate
ring of an affine algebraic variety, and the ring of integers of a number field. Examples of
noncommutative rings include the ring of n × n real square matrices with n ≥ 2, group rings
in representation theory, operator algebras in functional analysis, rings of differential
operators, and cohomology rings in topology.

The conceptualization of rings spanned the 1870s to the 1920s, with key contributions by
Dedekind, Hilbert, Fraenkel, and Noether. Rings were first formalized as a generalization
of Dedekind domains that occur in number theory, and of polynomial rings and rings of
invariants that occur in algebraic geometry and invariant theory. They later proved useful
in other branches of mathematics such as geometry and analysis.